Toward New Imaginaries: An Introduction Dilip l'arameshlyar Gaonkar Dilip Parameshwar Gaonkar
publicCulture 14(1): 1-19

Some crucial self-understandings are not formulated in explicit or theoretical molds. They are first-person subjectivities that bulld upon implicit understandings that underlie and make possible common practices. They are embedded in the habitus of a population or are carried in modes of address, stories, symbols. and the like. They are imaginary in a double sense: they exist by virtue of representation or implicit understandings, even when they acquire immense institutional force; and they are the means by which individuals understand their identities and their place in the world 4    
 Second, modernity in its multiple forms seems to rely on a special form of social imaginary that is based on relations among strangers. The stranger sociability is made possible through mass mediation, yet it also creates and organizes spaces of circulation for mass media 5 
Other modern social imaginaries-such as the ethnos, the mainstream, public, and humanity-differ from the national model in important ways. Some are not articulated as a we but are third-person objectifications of society; these include the market, the mainstream, and ethnic and census categories. Some are experienced vicariously or through indirect mediation. Some are not collective agents like the people but are experienced through affects, such as mass sentiment or grief, rather than through will formation. For example, Princess Diana's death inspired intense collective emotions but did not result in any kind of movements for social reform OT change. Under such conditions, social imaginaries that are third-person objectifications can suddenly acquire agency; this is the case with at least some of the new social movements. And those movements, once agentialized, can under other conditions gravitate back to noodles of passive belonging or vicarious agency. 5
social imaginaries are ways of understanding the social that become social entities themselves, mediating collective life. Often, social scientists and historians have tried to understand these entities in terms of ideal theories. philosophies-what might be called “third-person" or “objective" points of view. 4

